---
Name: Trindell DeLane-Smith
Course: cis106
semester: Spring 2024 
---

# Deliverable 2 


## What are the server hardware specifications (virtual machine settings)?()[]
(hardware.spec)[q.1.png]
## What is Ubuntu server log in screen? Take screenshot - do not type it!
(UB.log_in)[q.2.png]
## What is the IP address of your Ubuntu Server Virtual Machine?
192.168.1.232
## How do you enable the Ubuntu Firewall?
sudo ufw enable 
## How do you check if the Ubuntu Firewall is running?
sudo ufw status command
## How do you disable the Ubuntu Firewall?
sudo ufw disable
## How do you add Apache to the Firewall?
Apache is available in Ubuntu’s default repositories. 
## What is the command you used to install Apache?
sudo apt install apache2
## What is the command you use to check if Apache is running?
sudo systemctl status apache2 --no-pager
## What is the command you use to stop Apache?
sudo systemctl stop apache2 --no-pager
## What is the command you use to restart Apache?
sudo systemctl restart apache2 --no-pager
## What is the command used to test Apache configuration?
sudo a2ensite ...config
## What is the command used to check the installed version of Apache? 
sudo systemctl status apache2 
## What are the most common commands to troubleshoot Apache errors? Provide a brief description of each command.
 systemctl - Used to control and interact with Linux services via the systemd service manager.
journalctl - Used to query and view the logs that are generated by systemd.
 apachectl - When troubleshooting, this command is used to check Apache’s configuration.
## Which are Apache Log Files, and what are they used for? Provide examples and screenshots.
(pic1)[apache.1.png](pic2)[apache.1.png]
Apache log files are a very helpful resource for troubleshooting. Generally, any error that you receive in a browser or other HTTP client will have a corresponding entry in Apache’s logs.